
[Source](https://vector-of-bool.github.io/docs/vscode-cmake-tools/settings.html "Permalink to Configuring CMake Tools — CMake Tools 1.4.0 documentation")

# Configuring CMake Tools — CMake Tools 1.4.0 documentation

CMake Tools supports a variety of settings that can be set at the user or workspace level via VSCode's `settings.json` file. This page talks about the available options and how they are used.

Options marked with _Supports substitution_ allow variable references to appear in their strings. See the [Variable Substitution][1] section

## Available Settings

### `cmake.buildArgs`

An array of additional arguments to pass to `cmake \--build`.

### `cmake.buildBeforeRun`

If `true`, build the launch/debug target before letting it execute.

### `cmake.buildDirectory`

Specify the build directory (The root directory where `CMakeCache.txt` will be generated).

### `cmake.buildEnvironment`

An object containing `key : value` pairs of environment variables, which will be passed _ONLY_ onto the compiler.

### `cmake.cacheInit`

Path or list of paths to cache-initialization files. Passed to CMake via the `-C` command-line argument.

### `cmake.cmakePath`

Specify location of the cmake executable.

* Default: `cmake`, which causes CMake Tools to search the `PATH` environment variable, as well as some hard-coded guesses.
* _Supports substitution_ of `workspaceRoot`, `workspaceFolder`, `workspaceRootFolderName`, `userHome`, `${command:...}` and `${env:...}`. Other substitutions will result in empty string.

### `cmake.configureArgs`

Arguments to CMake that will be passed during the configure process.

Warning

**Always** prefer to use `cmake.configureSettings` or [CMake Variants][2]. _Never_ pass `-D` arguments using this setting.

### `cmake.configureEnvironment`

An object containing `key : value` pairs of environment variables, which will be passed onto CMake _ONLY_ when configuring.

### `cmake.configureSettings`

An object containing `key : value` pairs, which will be passed onto CMake when configuring. It does the same thing as passing `-DVAR_NAME=ON` via `cmake.configureArgs`.

### `cmake.copyCompileCommands`

If not `null`, copies the `compile_commands.json` file generated by CMake to the path specified by this setting every time CMake successfully configures.

### `cmake.defaultVariants`

Override the default set of variants that will be supplied when no variants file is present. See [CMake Variants][2].

### `cmake.environment`

An object containing `key : value` pairs of environment variables, which will be passed onto CMake when configuring and to the compiler.

### `cmake.generator`

Set to a string to override CMake Tools' _preferred generator_ logic. If this is set, CMake will unconditionally use it as the `-G` CMake generator command line argument.

### `cmake.installPrefix`

If specified, sets a value for `CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX` when running CMake configure. If not, no value will be passed.

Note

If `CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX` is set via `cmake.configureArgs` or `cmake.configureSettings`, `cmake.installPrefix` will be ignored.

### `cmake.loggingLevel`

An enumerated string setting to change the amount of output CMake Tools produces in its output channel. Set to one of "trace", "debug", "info", "note", "warning", "error", or "fatal", with "trace" being the most verbose.

Note

Regardless of the logging level, CMake Tools writes _all_ levels of logging to the CMake Tools log file. This file is useful for [troubleshooting][3].

### `cmake.mingwSearchDirs`

List of paths to search for a MinGW installation. This means that GCC does not need to be on your `$PATH` for it to be found via Kit scanning.

### `cmake.parallelJobs`

By specifying a number, you can define how many jobs are run in parallel during the build.

### `cmake.preferredGenerators`

A list of strings of generator names to try in order when configuring a CMake project for the first time.

### `cmake.saveBeforeBuild`

If `true` (the default), saves open text documents when build or configure is invoked before running CMake.

### `cmake.sourceDirectory`

Directory where the root `CMakeLists.txt` will be found.

## Variable Substitution

Some options support the replacement of special values in their string value using `${variable}` syntax. The following built-in variables are expanded:

`${workspaceRoot}`
: 

**DEPRECATED**. The full path to the workspace root directory

`${workspaceFolder}`
: 

The full path to the workspace root directory

`${workspaceRootFolderName}`
: 

The name of the leaf directory in the workspace directory path

`${buildType}`
: 

The current CMake build type, eg. `Debug`, `Release`, `MinSizeRel`

`${buildKit}`
: 

The current CMake kit name, eg. `GCC 7.3.0`

`${generator}`
: 

The name of the CMake generator, eg. `Ninja`

`${projectName}`
: 

**DEPRECATED**. Expands to the constant string "`ProjectName`"

Note

This was deprecated as CMake does not consider there to be _one_ project name to use. The concept of a single project does not work in CMake, and this made this feature problematic and buggy. Alternatives include `${workspaceRootFolderName}`.

`${userHome}`
: 

The full path to the current user's home directory

### Environment Variables

Additionally, environment variables may be substituted with `${env:VARNAME}` and `${env.VARNAME}` syntax, where the string for the `VARNAME` environment variable will be replaced. If the named environment variable is undefined, an empty string will be expanded instead.

### Variant Substitution

Variant options may also be substituted with the `${variant:VARIANTNAME}` syntax, where the name of the currently active choice of the provided `VARIANTNAME` variant option will be replaced. If the variant option is undefined, an empty string will be expanded instead.

### Command Substitution

CMake Tools also supports expanding of VSCode commands, similar to `launch.json`. Running a command `${command:foo.bar}` will execute the `foo.bar` VSCode command and replace the string value. Beware of long-running commands! It is unspecified when and how many times CMake Tools will execute a command for a given expansion.

[1]: https://vector-of-bool.github.io#var-subs
[2]: https://vector-of-bool.github.io/variants.html#variants
[3]: https://vector-of-bool.github.io/troubleshooting.html#troubleshooting

  